---
layout: post
title: "How to use SVG in Flutter"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-31
tags: [conclusion]
comments: true
share: true
---

SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) is an XML-based vector image format widely used on the web. Flutter, being a cross-platform framework, provides support for using SVG images in your app. In this blog post, we will explore how to use SVG images in Flutter.

## Table of Contents
- [What is SVG?](#what-is-svg)
- [Using SVG Images in Flutter](#using-svg-images-in-flutter)
  - [Adding Dependencies](#adding-dependencies)
  - [Importing SVG Images](#importing-svg-images)
  - [Displaying SVG Images](#displaying-svg-images)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## What is SVG? {#what-is-svg}

SVG is a file format that describes two-dimensional scalable vector graphics using XML. It allows for the creation of graphics that can be scaled to any size without loss of image quality. SVG files are lightweight and can be easily edited and animated.

## Using SVG Images in Flutter {#using-svg-images-in-flutter}

To use SVG images in Flutter, you need to follow these steps:

### Adding Dependencies {#adding-dependencies}

First, you need to add the `flutter_svg` package as a dependency in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter_svg: ^0.22.0
```

After adding the dependency, run `flutter pub get` to download and install the package.

### Importing SVG Images {#importing-svg-images}

To import an SVG image, place the SVG file in your project's `assets` folder. Then, add the image asset to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - assets/image.svg
```

### Displaying SVG Images {#displaying-svg-images}

To display an SVG image, use the `SvgPicture.asset` widget provided by the `flutter_svg` package. Here's an example:

```dart
import 'package:flutter_svg/flutter_svg.dart';

SvgPicture.asset(
  'assets/image.svg',
  width: 200,
  height: 200,
),
```

In the example above, we import the `flutter_svg` package and use the `SvgPicture.asset` widget to display the SVG image. We specify the path to the SVG file and set the desired width and height for the image.

## Conclusion {#conclusion}

Using SVG images in Flutter is made easy with the `flutter_svg` package. By following the steps mentioned in this blog post, you can leverage the power of vector graphics in your Flutter apps. Start using SVG images today to create scalable and adaptable UI elements in your Flutter projects.

Please find the official documentation of `flutter_svg` package for more information: [flutter_svg on pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_svg)

\#flutter #SVG