---
layout: post
title: "Drawing arcs in Flutter"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-04
tags: [basic, drawing]
comments: true
share: true
---

In Flutter, you can create custom shapes by leveraging the `CustomPaint` widget. This widget allows you to create your own custom drawings by providing a `CustomPainter` class that defines how to paint on the canvas.

In this tutorial, we will learn how to draw arcs using the `CustomPaint` widget in Flutter.

## Table of Contents
- [Basic Setup](#basic-setup)
- [Drawing an Arc](#drawing-an-arc)
- [Customizing the Arc](#customizing-the-arc)

## Basic Setup

To begin, create a new Flutter project and open the `main.dart` file. Import the necessary packages:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'dart:math';
```

## Drawing an Arc

To draw an arc, we will create a `CustomPainter` class that overrides the `paint` method. This method takes a `Canvas` object and a `Size` object as arguments.

Inside the `paint` method, we can use the `Canvas` methods to draw the desired shape. In this case, we will use the `drawArc` method to draw the arc.

```dart
class ArcPainter extends CustomPainter {
  @override
  void paint(Canvas canvas, Size size) {
    final startAngle = 3 * pi / 2; // 270 degrees
    final sweepAngle = pi; // 180 degrees
    final rect = Rect.fromCircle(
      center: Offset(size.width / 2, size.height / 2),
      radius: 100,
    );

    final paint = Paint()
      ..color = Colors.blue
      ..style = PaintingStyle.stroke
      ..strokeWidth = 4;

    canvas.drawArc(rect, startAngle, sweepAngle, false, paint);
  }

  @override
  bool shouldRepaint(covariant CustomPainter oldDelegate) {
    return false;
  }
}
```

In the above code, we define the start angle and sweep angle to determine the portion of the circle that forms the arc. We also create a `Rect` object that represents the bounds of the arc. The `Paint` object is used to customize the appearance of the arc.

The `shouldRepaint` method returns `false` as we don't need to repaint the arc unless any property changes.

## Customizing the Arc

To use the `ArcPainter` class, we need to create a `CustomPaint` widget and provide an instance of `ArcPainter` as the `painter` property. We can also customize the size and position of the arc by wrapping the `CustomPaint` widget inside a `Container`.

```dart
class MyArcApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('Arc Example'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: Container(
            width: 200,
            height: 200,
            child: CustomPaint(
              painter: ArcPainter(),
            ),
          ),
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}

void main() {
  runApp(MyArcApp());
}
```

Save the changes and run the app. You will see a blue arc displayed on the screen with a size of 200x200 pixels.

## Conclusion

Drawing arcs in Flutter is made possible by using the `CustomPainter` class in conjunction with the `CustomPaint` widget. By leveraging these Flutter features, you can create custom shapes and designs to suit your app's needs. Get creative and explore more possibilities with drawing custom shapes in Flutter!

#flutter #drawing #arcs #custompaint